# Antenna-Array-Design
A theoretical design of a phased array radar in order to track space debris, including the operational environment and costing of the system.

The system takes the form of a 76X76 planar array made up of 5776 half-wave crossed dipole elements operating at a frequency of 440 MHz. The radar system was configured in a monostatic topology and operated in a pulsed wave mode with a pulse width of 37 microseconds and a pulse repetition frequency of 64.86 Hz. A Gaussian power distribution was applied to the elements of the array. The phased array has a maximum gain of 46.54 dBi and a minimum half power beam width (HPBW) of 0.83 degrees when directed along array bore sight. After performing a sensitivity analysis on the system, it was found that the gain decreased, HPBW increased and side lobes gains increased as the steering angle departed from bore sight. The field of view (FOV) was defined as the angle range up to which perfectly conducting spherical debris having radii of 5 cm could be detected with a signal to noise ratio of greater than 7 dB while the sensitivity of the side lobe was less than that of the main lobe. In the 0 degree and 90 degree planes the FOV had an angular extent of 25 degrees. In the 45 degree and 135 degree planes the FOV had an angular extent of 35 degrees. At the furthest extent of the FOV, the gain of the steered beam was 42.70 dBi and the HPBW was 1.09 degrees and was able to detect a 5 cm radius sphere up to altitudes of approximately 1000 km. Through neglecting signal processing as well as data transfer and communication infrastructure of the system, a cost analysis was performed and
was found to cost R 664 795 697.90. Future work in the areas of maintaining the maximum gain of the main beam when steering has been recommended.
